### About Sushant

My first software program was in Visual basic, way back in 1984 in a Casio programmable calculator PB100. Originally, I wanted to be an electronic engineer but exposure to programming left me crazy and I shifted to Computer Science in engineering college. There I learnt Fortran, Cobol, Pascal and assembly language. After passing out I learnt C, Dbase, Foxpro, Clipper, Powerbuilder, Sql Anywhere and Java of my own. Since year 2005 I learnt JavaScript, ASP.Net, C#, SharePoint, Sql Server, Oracle, SSIS, SSRS, WPF, WCF and allied proprietary technology. I developed several web parts in SharePoint during that time. Over the years I learnt and worked upon Python, advanced JavaScript, ES6, Angular 2 onwards, React.js, Node.js and associated frameworks.

In early matured days of software development per say during year 2005 - 2010, the scope was broadly confined to proprietary technologies as ASP.net, C#, Java, Sql server and oracle. Very few options were available as choice of technology and tools and upgradation of tools was mostly on yearly or once in three-year basis. The technology was quite mature and good documentation with good working code samples were readily available. Some very good business softwares were written in this period.

Gradually open source technology took over since year 2011. Rise of advanced JavaScript as programming language both at client and server side created a massive setback for proprietary languages. Plethora of open source databases such as PostgreSql and MongoDB evolved which were fit for mission critical software projects. 

The advancement of software development tools started multi dimension and everything worked. The work of a developer became more challenging. A developer now needed to make a choice between several options at client and server end. Documentation would not be very good. There would be cut-throat competition between several technologies. Even version changes would be so frequent sometime in just two weeks. The pace of advancement in development tools would be too high to be tackled by a single person. During this time a new term Full stack developer evolved. At present if you are in development it is widely expected that you work both at client and server side, work upon middleware’s and databases, create good HTML front ends with CSS and JavaScript and do deployment on cloud may it be Microsoft Azure, Amazon’s AWS, Google Cloud or any other cloud service provider.

During this evolution of software development, I observed that many enterprises and people still glued to the old tools and technology of year 2010-11 and they educated their clients accordingly. They did not learn new stuff and remained in their comfort zone.

Building blocks for today’s most challenging software development work are full stack developers. Ability to learn fast and in definitive manner are keys to success. You must master the art of learning.

I am proud to say that in past few years I learned how to learn. It is practically impossible to keep so many competitive technologies in mind by a single person, but that is the need of time. I have a bad memory, so after I master a technology I step back and create key notes about that technology. When it is required to use that technology after few months when I have completely forgotten that, these key notes come to rescue. Over past few years I have such key notes spanning over several hundred pages.

I am passionate and devoted to software development and spend over ten hours per day in development and research.

I am good in designing the frameworks to do repetitive work in generic fashion. I developed methodology to resolve complex software problems by simple algorithms. I am confident in advanced JavaScript, ES6, React.js, Next.js, Gatsby, Socket.io, node.js, HTML, SCSS, css-in-js and PostGreSql. I develop full stack and am capable to work through entire life cycle of software development starting from requirement gathering to production deployment.
