### Resume of Sushant

| | |
| :---  |   :---   |
|Experience | 3+ decades |
| Current engagement | Chief Technology Officer in a company for limited time involvement |
| Experience in | Client side: <span class='highlight'>React.js</span>, Gatsby, <span class='highlight'>next.js</span>, Angular 2 / 4 / 5 / 6, <span class='highlight'>Advanced JavaScript frameworks</span>, Banckbone, ES6 |
|               | Server side: <span class='highlight'>Node.js</span>, J2EE, Java, C#, ASP.NET|
|               | Databases: <span class='highlight'>PostgreSql</span>, MySQl, Oracle, Mongo DB, Sql Server, Sql Anywhere, ReThinkDB |
|               | Mobile: <span class='highlight'>Google Flutter</span>, Dart, Cordova, Ionic, React native |
|               | Cloud: Azure, Docker, Zeit, Serverless deployments |
|               | Others: GraphQL, Apollo, SharePoint, WPF, WCF, REST, LifeRay, Crystal reports, Jasper reports, Office 365 |
| Other qualities | Individual contributor,  Team worker, Technical and content and blog writing, English communication skill, Full stack development, Hard working with intelligence, Can roll out complete complex system starting from requirement gathering to production deployment |
|Intrested in | Design and implementation of mission critical complex systems. Designing of frameworks. Robitics and drone programming. Artificial intelligence and machine learning|

##### Professional experience of Sushant
<div class='box'>
    <b>Feb 2018 - June 2019:</b> Part time CTO (Chief Technology Officer) in a multinational company. Worked on React.js, Gatsby, Next.js, PostgreSql, Node.js, GraphQL, Flutter, Dart, Angular 6, Docker
    <p>1) Created this instant portal sushantagrawal.com. Used React Next.js<br></p>
    <p>2) Created a company static website at <a target='_blank' href='https://www.capital-chowringhee.com'>capital-chowringhee.com</a>. Used React Gatsby</p>
    <p>3) Monitored creation of static website at <a target='_blank' href='https://kushinfotech.com'>Kushinfotech.com</a>. Used React Gatsby</p>
    <p>4) Monitored creation of static website at <a target='_blank' href='https://www.kyokushinkaikanindia.com/'>kyokushinkaikanindia.com</a>. Used React Gatsby</p>
    <p>5) Developed a dynamic entry forms utility named Ornate. This utility converts JSON objects to HTML form. On submit the entered data is sent to server in JSON format. All sort of syncronous and asyncronous validations are possible. Main attraction is the usage of unlimited group controls, repeater controls and deep nesting of group and repeater controls. Live demo is at <a target='_blank' href='http://chisel.cloudjiffy.net/apps/rx'>chisel.cloudjiffy.net/apps/rx</a>. Used React create-react-app</p>
    <p>6) Created an e-commerce demo solution at <a target='blank' href='http://chisel.cloudjiffy.net/apps/eshop'>http://chisel.cloudjiffy.net/apps/eshop</a>. Used Angular 6, PostgreSql, Node.js </p>
    <p>7) Created dynamic forms application to create data entry forms from JSON object in Angular 6. Complex forms having repeater controls and validations can be generated by providing a JSON object. Used Angular 6</p>
    <p>8) Did architectural design and development of survey questionnaire application for a reputed hospital in USA. It consisted of around 40 questions pages created dynamically from JSON object. used Angular 6</p>
    <p>9) Deployed several angular 5/6 and React applications in Docker environment in cloud using node.js as web server and Postgresql as docker image database. Compiled Plv8, the JavaScript engine of node.js in Ubuntu 18 and added it as extension of Plv8 in Postgresql. Provided the Postgresql with compiled PlV8 extension in Docker hub at <a target='_blank' href= 'https://hub.docker.com/r/capitalch/xpostgres-plv8/'>https://hub.docker.com/r/capitalch/xpostgres-plv8/</a></p>
    <p>10) Developed a reporting application for mobile devices named MProbe in Google flutter which is based on Dart programming language. By using MProbe a mobile phone fetches data from a business desktop server which does not possess any static IP. The desktop is all time connected through web socket to docker based node.js server in cloud. Mobile phone sends query messages which reaches to business desktop through http + web socket through node.js web server. Business desktop decodes the message and runs a query in local database and returns the results of query to node.js web server which in turn is received back by mobile phone. The entire work is carried on seamlessly and without any failure. By using MProbe a business user can get business critical reports from business desktop computer having no Static / permanent IP address. The entire framework was designed and carried out alone by me. A sample of this mobile application can be downloaded from Google Playstore with name 'MProbe'</p>
    <p>11) Developed a tracker utility purely in Node.js / JavaScript / ES6 and sql server. This utility would track the shipment of a wine shipping company in USA, the shipment being done by reputed courier companies like FedEX, UPS, GSO etc. The utility would connect to api of the courier company and get the shipping package information and push that information in Sql Server database hosted in Azure.</p>
    <b>Oct 2017 - Jan 2018:</b> Full time CTO (Chief Technology Officer) in a multinational company. Worked mainly on Angular 4 / 5, D3.js, node.js and PostgreSql as chief architect and lead developer in a team.
    <p>Worked as developer in at least 6 projects in Angular 4 / 5 / 6 platform for a USA based hospital. One project used d3.js to display various complex graphs showing patient’s history of medicines and diseases. Other projects were questionnaires from various patients about their pre and post therapy experiences. At server side node.js was used.</p>
    <b>May 2015 – Sep 2017:</b> Chief architect and lead developer. Worked on Backbone, .net, Sql Server, Angular 2/ 4
    <p>1) Upgraded a banking solution in Backbone.js.</p>
    <p>2) Developed Time reporting system on Ionic Cordova hybrid mobile system (Android
    and IPhone). Database was Sql Server hosted in Windows Azure cloud. Server side coding was in node.js Client side used Ionic mobile framework which is hybrid mobile technology internally using Angular.js.</p>
    <p>3) Developed order generation and reporting system in mobile (Android and IPhone) based on Ionic and Cordova framework. The system provides accounts and inventory reports on a mobile phone. A retail outlet is running financial accounting and inventory program in its various outlets at multiple locations. You can connect to any location and get its real time sale on mobile phone. The beauty of the system is no outlet is using any static IP. Yet you can connect to any location and get financial reports. All the communication is done over simple internet connection. The computers are behind firewalls and routers. There are multiple node.js installations communicating to each other. </p>
    <p>4) Developed an e-commerce solution for a Wine comany of USA in Angular 2. This system would allow customers to order wine on line.</p>
    <b>April 2014 – May 2015:</b> Lead architect and developer. Worked on LifeRay Document Management system, Jasper reports, Java and Lucene
    <p>1) The application allows user to select reports from a drop-down list and fire it. This allows user defined custom parameters for the reports and makes use of Quartz Cron scheduler, various Apache libraries and Jasper Report framework extensively used. The technologies used were Liferay 6.1, Jasper Reports, Java 1.7, Apache libraries, Quartz Cron scheduler. The application was deployed in Linux Centos</p>
    <p>2) Developed a mini document management system using Java and Tomcat. This uses Lucene as serch engine for meta data of documents. </p>
    <p>3) Developed proof of concept involving technologies like JAVA FX, Lucene search library and associated libraries, Big data (Hadoop), MuleSoft service bus, Activiti workflows, WordPress Content Management System</p>
    <b>June 2013 – Mar 2014:</b> Worked on Pivot reports, ETL, .net, Sql server, SSIS, SSRS, SharePoint client object model, Html.
    <p>1) For a wine company in USA created Pivot reports for tabular data imported from mainframe system through Excel sheets.2) Leading development and architecture of ETL scripts to transfer data from Main Frame system to Sql Server</p>
    <p>2) Monitored some SharePoint OTB workflows implementation</p>
    <p>3) Developmed SSRS based reports to be viewed in SharePoint 2013 environment.</p>
    <p>4) Developed few small SharePoint 2013 workflows.</p>
    <b>Jan 2013 – May 2013:</b> Worked as Senior Developer and Lead role in SSIS, Sql server, ETL scripts, C#
    <p>1) Worked for a health care company in USA. Created ETL scripts to port data from Excel tables and Sql server database to Sql server.</p>
    <p>2) Developed custom code in C# inside SSIS.</p>
    <b>May 2012 – Dec 2012:</b> Worked as senior developer in Oracle database and Crystal reports
    <p>1) Worked for a semiconductor manufacturer in USA.2) Used crystal reports to generate graphs and drill down reports using data from Oracle database for Quality Management Reporting.</p>
    <b>Year 2010 – 2013</b> Worked as Lead developer and project manager in Windows forms, WPF, WCF,c#
    <p>1) Supervised a team consisting of 3 other developers to develop and maintain software tools of a real estate product manufacturing company in USA.2) Developed a full fledged HR management system within a team of 5 developers. All the processes from recruitment to release were taken care off.</p>
    <p>2) Developed an asset management system of a rental company using ASP.net. Supervised a team of 3 developers. Used Dev-express for reporting and form generation.</p>
    <p>3) Developed a payroll system in SilverLight and c#.</p>
    <b>Sep 2010 – April 2012:</b> Worked as Lead developer, architect in SharePoint 2007, c#, ASP.net, InfoPath
    <p>1) Worked for a medical device company and Developed custom complex workflows using SharePoint 2007. The workflow was used in document approval process in FDA management. The workflow consisted of serial approvals, parallel approvals, task generation, escalation and delegation. Workflow logic was developed in c# and Infopath forms. Created Asp.net forms to submit data to workflow.</p>
    <b>Mar 2008 – Sep 2009:</b> Worked as lead developer in SharePoint 2007, c#, Asp.net
    <p>1) Worked for an US based educational non-profit organization. Created workflow in SharePoint 2007 for submission of student information form being passed through an approval process. Based on approvals emails are sent to originators. Used InfoPath forms to transfer data to workflow.</p>
    <b>Jan 2006 – Feb 2008:</b> Worked as Senior developer, QA, Technical writer in K2 workflow, ASP.net, c#.
    <p>1) Created event management and interview management system for USA university.</p>
    <p>2) Did QA work for a SharePoint tool and submitted a 40 pages report. </p>
    <p>3) Created several utilities in SharePoint for miscellaneous US clients.</p>
    <p>4) Developed many custom complex web parts in SharePoint using ASP.net and c#.</p>
    <p>5) Developed complex K2 workflow for US client using ASP.net and c#.</p>
    <p>6) Developed process management system for a US based law firm.</p>
    <b>Before year 2006</b> Worked as Freelancer mainly in Java, Powerbuilder and Sql Anywhere
    <p>1) Developed complete financial accounting system in PowerBuilder. </p>
    <p>2) Developed complete service management system for a repairing and maintainance company in India.</
    <p>3) Developed an SMS mobile application in Java working on AT commands.</p>
    <p>4) Developed a reporting susyem in C# using Dev Express.</p>

</div>




<style>
    table {
        border-collapse: collapse;
    }
    th {
        display:none;
    }
    td {
        border: 1px solid grey;    
        padding: 0.5rem;
        font-size: 1.0rem;
    }

    p {
        font-size: 1rem;
        margin-top:0.5rem;
        line-height: 1.5rem;
    }

    b{
        color:blue;
    }
   .highlight {
       color: red;
       font-weight: bold;
   }
   .box {
       border: 1px solid grey;
       padding: 1rem;
       font-size:1rem;
   }
   
</style>