<table style="width: 100%;">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Experience</td>
<td>2+ decades</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Association in 2018</td>
<td>Chief Technology Officer of a multinational company</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Worked with</td>
<td>Angular 2/ 4/ 5/6/7, React.js, Node.js, IONIC mobile framework, dart, flutter mobile, Cordova, J2EE, J2SE,
.NET, WCF, WPF, REST, SharePoint, Office 365, ASP.NET, C#, JavaScript frameworks and libraries,
ES6, SQL server, PostGreSql, Oracle, MySQL, Mongo DB, Backbone,
WordPress, PHP, LifeRay, Jasper reports, PowerBuilder, Sybase Sql Anywhere</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Extensive experience</td>
<td>Docker, Ubuntu, Flutter mobile, dart, React.js, Mobile cordova based systems, Angular 2/ 4/ 5/6/7, node.js based REST API and PostGreSql</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Other qualities</td>
<td>Team worker and also can work alone, Technical writer,
English communication skill, Can design and implement a complete system consisting of front end, middle tier and back end</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Interested in</td>
<td>Design and development of mission critical software big challenging software systems from start to end</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Message</td>
<td>1) Challenges are interesting.
2) Failures do not exist.
3) In software development 5% people do original work,
40% follow them and rest are billing machines.
4) Smart work overrides hard work.
5) Machine learning and artificial intelligence are old wines in new bottle.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h4>Professional experience</h4>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><b>CTO (Chief technology Officer) From year 2006 till date</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Working with clients on Software development in Java, .NET, SharePoint, Liferay, Angular 2/ 4/ 5/6/7, React JS, Backbone, Ionic
cordova and JavaScript</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>March 2018 - Till date: Angular 6, node.js, PostGreSql: Single developer</b></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td>1) Started an e-commerce project on Angular 5, node.js and PostGreSql. 2) Developed a form generator framework in Angular 5/6 such that complex forms are generated by providing a JSON object. Users provide JSON object at run time and corresponding form is generated. Data can be inserted in the form and on submit of the form the data is converted to JSON and sent to node.js server to be stored in a PostGreSql database. Any number of nesting and usage of custom controls is allowed.

3) Did architectural design of an Angular 6 application of survey questionnaire for a reputed hospital in USA. It consisted of around 40 questions pages created dynamically from a JSON object.

4) Deployed several angular 5/6 applications in Docker environment in cloud using node.js as web server and Postgresql as docker image database. Compiled Plv8, the JavaScript engine of node.js in Ubuntu 18 and added it as extension of Plv8 in Postgresql. Provided the Postgresql with compiled PlV8 extension in Docker hub at

https://hub.docker.com/r/capitalch/xpostgres-plv8/

5) Developed a reporting application named MProbe in Google flutter which is based on Dart programming language. MProbe uses IOT (Internet of things).

By using MProbe a mobile phone fetches data from a business desktop server <strong>which does not possess any static IP. </strong>The desktop is all time connected through web socket to docker based node.js server in cloud. Mobile phone sends query messages which reaches to business desktop through http + web socket through node.js web server. Business desktop decodes the message and runs a query in local database and returns the results of query to node.js web server which in turn is received back by mobile phone. The entire work is carried on seamlessly and without any failure. By using MProbe a business user can get business critical reports from business desktop computer having no Static / permanent IP address. The entire framework is designed and carried on by me.

&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>Oct 2017 - Feb 2018: Angular 4 / 5, D3.js, node.js: Chief architect and lead developer in a team</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Developer in at least 6 projects in Angular 4 / 5 platform for a USA based hospital. One project used d3.js to display various complex graphs showing patient's history of medicines and diseases. Other projects were questionnaires from various patients about their pre and post therapy experiences. At server side node.js was used.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>May 2015 - Sep 2017: Backbone, .net, Sql Server, Angular 2/ 4, React.js: Chief architect and lead developer</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1) Various JavaScripts Frameworks such as Backbone, Angular 2/4 and React JS.2) REST API design in node.js.

3) Upgraded a banking solution in Backbone.js.

4) Developed Time reporting system on Ionic Cordova hybrid mobile system (Android
and IPhone) Database is Sql Server hosted in Windows Azure cloud Server side coding is in node.js Client side uses
Ionic framework which is hybrid mobile technology internally using Angular.js.

5) Developed order generation and reporting system in mobile (Android and IPhone) based on Ionic and Cordova framework. The system provides accounts and inventory reports on a mobile phone. A retail outlet is running financial accounting and inventory program in its various outlets at multiple locations. You can connect to any location and get its real time sale on mobile phone. The beauty of the system is no outlet is using any static IP. Yet you can connect to any location and get financial reports. All the communication is done over simple internet connection. The computers are behind firewalls and routers. There are multiple node.js installations communicating to each other. <b>This is a flagship project and it uses IOT in JavaScript.</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>
April 2014 - May 2015: Java, LifeRay Document Management system, Jasper reports: Lead architect and developer
</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1) The application allows user to select reports from a drop-down list and fire it. This allows user defined custom parameters for the reports and makes use of Quartz Cron scheduler, various Apache libraries and Jasper Report framework extensively.2) The technologies used were Liferay 6.1, Jasper Reports, Java 1.7, Apache libraries, Quartz Cron scheduler.

3) Developed proof of concept involving technologies like JAVA FX, Lucene search library and associated libraries, Big data (Hadoop), MuleSoft service bus, Activiti workflows, WordPress Content Management System.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>
June 2013 - Mar 2014: Pivot reports, ETL, .net, Sql server, SSIS, SSRS, SharePoint client object model, Html.
</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1) For a wine company in USA created Pivot reports for tabular data imported from mainframe system through Excel sheets.2) Leading development and architecture of ETL scripts to transfer data from Main Frame system to Sql Server.

3) Monitored some SharePoint OTB workflows implementation.

4) Development of SSRS based reports to be viewed in SharePoint 2013 environment.

5) Development of small SharePoint 2013 workflows.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>
Jan 2013 - May 2013: SSIS, Sql server, ETL scripts, C#: Senior Developer, Lead role
</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1) Worked for a health care company in USA.2) Created ETL scripts to port data from Excel tables and Sql server database to Sql server.

3) Custom code in C# inside SSIS.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>
May 2012 - Dec 2012: Oracle database, Crystal reports: Senior developer
</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1) Worked for a semiconductor manufacturer in USA.2) Used crystal reports to generate graphs and drill down reports using data from Oracle database for Quality Management Reporting.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>
Parallel projects in time interval 2010 - 2013: Windows forms, WPF, WCF,c#: Lead developer and project management
</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1) Supervised a team consisting of 3 other developers to develop and maintain software tools of a real estate product manufacturing company in USA.2) Developed a full fledged HR management system within a team of 5 developers. All the processes from recruitment to release were taken care off.

3) Developed an asset management system of a rental company supervising a team of 3 developers. Used Dev-express for reporting and form generation.

4) Developed a payroll system in SilverLight and c#.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>
Sep 2010 - April 2012: Powershell, C#, SharePoint 2007, SharePoint 2010: Lead developer
</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1) Developed powershell scripts to migrate data from SharePoint 2007 to SharePoint 2010.2) Did several other migration projects.

3) Trained junior staff members to SharePoint.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>
Oct 2009 - Aug 2010: SharePoint 2007, c#, ASP.net, InfoPath: Lead developer, architect
</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1) Worked for a medical device company 2) Developed custom complex workflows using SharePoint 2007. The workflow was used in document approval process in FDA management. The workflow consisted of serial approvals, parallel approvals, task generation, escalation and delegation. Workflow logic was developed in c# and Infopath forms.

3) Created Asp.net forms to submit data to workflow.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>
Mar 2008 - Sep 2009: SharePoint 2007, c#, Asp.net: Lead developer
</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1) Worked for an educational non-profit organization.2) Created workflow in SharePoint 2007 for submission of student information form being passed through an approval process.

3) Based on approvals emails are sent to originators

4) Used InfoPath forms to transfer data to workflow.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>
Jan 2006 - Feb 2008: K2, ASP.net, c#: Senior developer, QA, Technical writer
</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1) Created event management and interview management system for USA universities.2) Did QA work for a SharePoint tool and submitted a 40 pages report.

3) Created several utilities in SharePoint for miscellaneous US clients.

4) Developed many custom complex web parts in SharePoint using ASP.net and c#.

5) Developed complex K2 workflow for US client using ASP.net and c#.

6) Developed process management system for a US based law firm.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><b>
Prior to year 2006: Worked as free lancer
</b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1) Developed complete financial accounting system in PowerBuilder. 2) Developed Payroll system in c#.

3) Developed complete service management system for a repairing and maintainance company in India.

4) Developed an SMS mobile application in Java working on AT commands.

5) Developed a reporting susyem using Dev Express.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>